# Lab 1: Computer Setup for CS 320

In CS 320, you'll be writing your code and testing it on Linux --
Linux is a popular free operating system.  A big advantage of this is
that we auto-grade you on a Linux machine.  By using Linux yourself,
you'll usually know sooner if `test.py` is going to fail when we run
it.  Also, we can give you the exact steps we followed to install
various software on our Linux system, so you can do the same.

Of course, you probably already have Mac or Windows on your ~~laptop~~
machine, and we won't ask you to give that in up.  Instead, you'll be
running Linux on a "virtual machine".  You can think of a virtual
machine as a "fake" computer that you can install another operating
system on, like Windows or Linux.  The advantage is that you can have
multiple virtual machines on you ~~real computer~~ physical machine.
So you could in theory be running Mac, Window, and Linux programs on
your computer at the same time if you have the right virtual machines
setup!

Knowing how to create virtual machines is an important data-science
skill because it makes your analysis more *reproducible* -- if your
code works in your virtual machine, and other people know how to
reconstruct a similar virtual machine on their computer (with the same
operating system and programs installed), they're more likely to be
produce the same results by running your code.

Although you could install virtual machine software on your computer,
in this class we'll be renting virtual machines in Google's Cloud
Platform (called GCP).  One virtual machine costs about $15/month
,depending on the size you select, so this cost is less than textbooks
for many courses (all CS 320 reading material is free).  We expect
most of you are new to GCP, and if so, there's usually $300 of
promotional credit upon signup, so hopefully you will end up paying
nothing!  You'll still need to provide your credit card as part of the
verification process, though.

Getting a virtual machine setup in the cloud for the first time can be
a hassle, so it's the only purpose of this first lab.  But in the long
run, this will make it much easier for you to install important
software we'll use this semester.  As a bonus, many people list
experience with major cloud platforms as skills on their resumes.

## Step 1: Signing up for GCP

Follow the instructions to [create a Google Cloud account](gcp.md).
Be sure to activate Google's free credit (if available).

## Step 2: Configuring the Firewall

What is a firewall?  First, a little background.

Remember from CS 220/301 that a computer (typically) has an *IP address*
(something like 123.234.210.001), and other computers knowing that IP
address can communicate with programs running on that computer.

If there are multiple running programs, they are differentiated by
*port numbers*.  For example, sending a message to 123.234.210.001:220
sends a message to the program on port 220 running on a computer with
address 123.234.210.001 (note the `:` between the IP address and port
number).  Sending a message to 123.234.210.001:320 might send a
message to a different program on that same machine.  Analogy: an IP
address is like the address of an apartment building (the computer),
and a port number is like the apartment number of a specific unit;
programs are the residents living in the units.

A Firewall (among other things) can block access to certain ports for
outsiders, to provide security.  We will unblock all ports for our
virtual machine.  This is not the most secure option, but it is
convenient, and fine for the purposes of this course.

Follow [these instructions](firewall.md) to configure the firewall to unblock all
ports.

## Step 3 [Recommended]: Creating an SSH Key

You already have an idea of what a shell is: you've been either using
PowerShell (Windows) or bash (default on Mac) in CS 220/301.  *ssh*
stands for "secure shell", and it's a special shell that lets you
remotely connect to other computers over the network and run commands
there.  An *ssh key* is like a randomly generated password that ssh
automatically uses to access other machines (you won't generally type
it).

Macs and recent Windows computers (Windows 10 with recent updates)
should have a program OpenSSH installed, which will be the most
convenient way to access your virtual machine.

Try [these directions](ssh.md) to create an SSH key and connect it
with your cloud account.  If it doesn't work (e.g., because you don't
have OpenSSH), don't worry too much -- there are workarounds later.

## Step 4: Launching your Virtual Machine

Now it's time to actually create your virtual machine!  Follow [these steps](launch.md).

## Step 5a: Connecting with SSH from your terminal

If you were able to configure the SSH key properly in Step 3, follow
[these directions](connect.md).

## Step 5b [Alternative]: Connecting without SSH

If you couldn't configure the SSH key, follow [these
directions](connect-alt.md) instead.

## Step 6: Setting up Jupyter

Now lets get Jupyter and some other software installed.  Follow [these
directions](jupyter.md).

